# Floyd Economy

### Summary
-  A self-funded philanthropic economy
- An endogenous community of developers that conform to neutral and non-authoritative rules
- A censorship-resistant public goods platform

### The Problem Space
This section of the document should be treated as a conceptual document. Things here are bound to change and nothing is permanent.


### What we set out to solve?
The main issues that exist in open source software and decentralised autonomous organisations are highlighted here.

1. Public Goods
  * Sustainability issues related to public goods
  * Lack of incentives to contribute to public goods
  * Reducing public goods projects administrative costs
  * Free-Rider Problem
2. Decentralised Autonomous Organisations (DAOs)
  * Security vulnerabilities of issuing smart contracts to facilitate DAO
  * Plutocracy that occurs in decentralized governance
  * Non-colluding endogenous communities of developers

**IMPORTANT CAVEAT**: This project first started out as a solution to the sustainability issues that exist within the open-source software industry. However, while solving the sustainability issue, we noticed that this solution is applicable to a variety of public goods through concepts related to philanthropic liberalism. Henceforth, some parts of this document highlight open-source software, however, that should be taken with a grain of salt. Instead, refer to those parts as public goods instead of open-source software.

Also, it’s worth noting that most of the concepts and decisions that are made in this document are to solve the sustainability issues that exists in public good platforms.


### How do we solve the sustainability issue?

The sustainability issue highlights the core problem of public good projects, whereby, some public good projects lack funding to sustain business activities for a long period of time.

Solution: **Allocation of Block Rewards to FF DAO and CLR DAOA portion of the reward from new blocks and transactions fees that occur in the application are allocated into two separate DAOs, the Floyd Foundation DAO and the CLR DAO.**

1. Floyd Foundation DAO (FF DAO)
  * this fund is managed collectively by the community to fund the business aspects of Floyd Foundation, e.g
    * operational cost
    * business development
    * technological research and developmental cost
    * compliance and legal cost
    * ecosystem development
  * can also contribute to each CLR round based on community vote
  * receives ~10% of the block rewards
2. Capital-Constrained Liberal Radicalism (CLR DAO)
  * this fund is used to provide grants and funding for projects through concepts related to Quadratic Voting and Liberal Radicalism.
  * an autonomous self-governing fund that doesn't require community interaction
  * receives ~5% of the block rewards

**Advantages**
1. This sustainability solution ensures that Floyd Foundation is self-funded by the block rewards.
2. As for the sustainability of other public goods projects, the CLR DAO takes care of this by issuing out a CLR-based funding mechanism in specific intervals. Gitcoin.co has successfully implemented this (based on the amazing work that is done by Vitalik Buterin, Zoë Hitzig and E. Glen Wey,  refer to /papers/econs/1.pdf from GitHub Research). However, the CLR fund used by Gitcoin.co requires Ethereum Foundation to manage the matching fund. This is pretty worrisome, as there can always be a situation whereby Ethereum Foundation can stop issuing matching funds during a CLR round. We mitigate this completely by ensuring that there is a self-managed CLR DAO that autonomously participates in a CLR round, without any external parties being involved.
3. There is a guarantee that each CLR round, there will be at least one DAO contributing to the CLR Match Fund (CLR DAO will contribute each round). However, the contribution of FF DAO to the CLR Round must go through a round of approval by the community (note that there is a clear distinction between funding a project and funding the matching fund of a CLR round).

**Disadvantages**
1. A mechanism to alter the % of block rewards must be implemented so that the community can decide the ratio of the block rewards. While this is not mandatory, the very existence of a DAO means that the community should be able to collectively decide on this value. However, we can solve this by incorporating a mechanism similar to how Bitcoin alters the block difficulty depending on the funds generated by the FF DAO and CLR DAO during a certain time interval (like every 2016 blocks in Bitcoin).
2. Forces the solution to use a native currency, meaning that we cannot leverage existing blockchains. Moreover, it also forces us to ensure that block rewards exist in the ecosystem.

**IMPORTANT CAVEAT:** This solution can exist independently of the rest of the sustainability solutions. For instance, if we decide to implement exponential decay reward mechanism similar to Panvala, it’s very much possible to ensure that a certain percentage of that block reward is allocated to the FF and CLR DAOs.
